---
title: "Final Project: Tying it All Together"
author: Cooper Shapard
date: 2024-10-30
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

# Overview
Welcome to the Final Project. Here, you will tie all of the topics you learned in this class together to create a couple different programs of your choosing.

# Grading
How this assignment will work is as follows. Below are a list of projects with assigned credits. You must choose projects that add to at least ten (10) credits. More complex projects with be rewarded with more credits. **These credits are NOT your final score on the assignment.** Your assignment will be graded like any other lab report based on explanations, code accuracy, and successful completion of each project. Each project must have a brief (2-4 sentence) overview, text or a screenshot of all code you used, a screenshot with at least 3 unit tests to show your code works, and an explanation of how your program works in your own words. **You also must include your name and student ID commented somewhere in your code to receive full credit.**

However, your grade will be weighted based on the total number of credits for the projects you choose. For example, if you only complete nine credits, then you can only receive a maximum score of 90% on the assignment. You are allowed to earn extra credit up to a 120% on the assignment (by doing at least 12 credits worth of projects). Anything over 120% is solely for your own practice and will not be counted for your final grade.

Consider this score on a student's assignment:

- Project 1 (3 credits): 100%
- Project 2 (4 credits): 90%
- Project 3 (2 credits): 100%
- Project 4 (2 credits): 85%

The student did 11 total credits with a score of `(3 * 1.00) + (4 * 0.90) + (2 * 1.00) + (2 * 0.85) = 10.3; 10.3/10 = 1.03` and would recieve a 103 on the assignment.

See the catalogue below for avaliable projects. Many of these come from last semester's Homework 4, which was discontinued this starting this year. You will need to implement each one of these projects from scratch. **Any submitted code generated by a Generative AI (GAI) like ChatGPT without proper citation will be considered a breach of the student code of conduct. Over-reliance on GAI code will result in a heavy loss of points, even if cited appropriately.** You are paying to much to be here to rely on GAI code.

For any questions regarding the scoring on this assignment, please ask TA Cooper.

# Projects
16 project prompts sorted by credit value. A star `*` means that the project was part of the original Homework 4 (some are simplified for this project).

---

## Sarcasm Generator (1 Credits)
hello there -> HeLlO tHeRe

## Epples and Benenes (1 Credit)
Convert all vowels in an input into the letter E, the most common letter

## Rename a File (1 Credits)
Same content into a different name (don't need to delete original)

---

## Upgraded Sine Look Up Table (2 Credits)*
90 -> 180

## Palindrome Identifier (2 Credits)
Output Yes or No

## Binary Search (2 Credits)*
Pre-sorted dictionary given

## Ceasar Cipher (2 Credits)
assume all lowercase inputs

---

## Factorial Calculator (3 Credits)*
Write a program that takes a 1 digit number as input from the terminal and calculates the factorial

## Blinking Lights v2.0 (3 Credits)
Change the code to support up to 5 lights. Must be algorithmic (not hard coded)

## Modulus Operator (3 Credits)
Implement a macro that finds the Modulus (%) of two inputs and returns the R in R0 and the Q in R1.

## Bubble Sort (3 Credits)*
Not a dictionary

---

## 64-bit Multiplication (4 Credits)
Create a macro that expands ARM's 32-bit multiplication to allow an answer of up to 64 bits. It should return the product split between 2 registers.

## Text-based Video Game (4 Credits)
Must have at least 2 levels and nameable character who's name appears at least 2 times in the game

---

## Decimal to Ascii Coverter (5 Credits)
Input: "1234"
Memory: 1234
Output: "1234"

## Happy Birthday (5 Credits)
Play the song Happy Birthday on the breadboard using code from the Red Pitaya. Supplies avaliable upon request

---

## Push Button Lights (8 Credits)
Get the push button counter from Lab 9 to work

---

## Create your own! (1 - 5 Credits)
Propose your idea and have it credited by TA Cooper! One (1) max per person.








