---
title: "Final Project: Tying it All Together"
author: Cooper Shapard
date: 2024-11-07
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

# Overview
Welcome to the Final Project. Here, you will tie all of the topics you learned in this class together to create a couple different programs of your choosing.


# Grading
How this assignment will work is as follows. Below are a list of projects with assigned credits. You must choose projects that add to at least ten (10) credits. More complex projects with be rewarded with more credits. **These credits are NOT your final score on the assignment.** Your assignment will be graded like any other lab report based on explanations, code accuracy, and successful completion of each project. Each project must have a brief (2-4 sentence) overview, text or a screenshot of all code you used, a screenshot with at least 3 unit tests to show your code works, and an explanation of how your program works in your own words. **You also must include your name and student ID commented somewhere in your code to receive full credit.**

However, your grade will be weighted based on the total number of credits for the projects you choose. For example, if you only complete nine credits, then you can only receive a maximum score of 90% on the assignment. You are allowed to earn extra credit up to a 120% on the assignment (by doing at least 12 credits worth of projects). Anything over 120% is solely for your own practice and will not be counted for your final grade.

Consider these example scores for a student who chose to do 4 projects:

- Project 1 (3 credits): 100%
- Project 2 (4 credits): 90%
- Project 3 (2 credits): 100%
- Project 4 (2 credits): 85%

The student did 11 total credits with a score of `(3 * 1.00) + (4 * 0.90) + (2 * 1.00) + (2 * 0.85) = 10.3; 10.3/10 = 1.03` and would recieve a 103 on the assignment.

See the catalogue below for avaliable projects. Many of these come from last semester's Homework 4, which was discontinued this starting this year. You will need to implement each one of these projects from scratch. **Any submitted code generated by a Generative AI (GAI) like ChatGPT without proper citation will be considered a breach of the student code of conduct. Over-reliance on GAI code will result in a heavy loss of points, even if cited appropriately.** You are paying to much to be here to rely on GAI code.

For any questions regarding the scoring on this assignment, please ask TA Cooper.

# Projects
16 project prompts/ideas sorted by credit value. A star `*` means that the project was part of the original Homework 4 (most are simplified for this project). You can also propose your own project, seen at the bottom. Feel free to use code from previous labs (all are avaliable on the website), collaborate (each person must submit their own assignment), and ask a TA if you need assistance or clarification.

---

## Sarcasm Generator (1 Credits)
Write a program that takes a string input from the terminal and switches between capital and lowercase for every letter. Punctuation should stay the same. Examples:

Input: "hello there"<br>
Output: "HeLlO tHeRe"

Input: "i'm so EXCITED for this project!"<br>
Output: "I'm So ExCiTeD fOr ThIs PrOjEcT!"

## Epples and Benenes (1 Credit)
Do you know what the problem with vowels is? There's too many of them. Write a program that converts all vowels in an input into the letter "e", the best vowel. You can assume an all-lowercase input and that "y" is always a vowel. Examples:

Input: "my favorite vowel is o."<br>
Output: "me feverete vewel es e."

Input: "care to explain how you came up with this idea?"<br>
Output: "cere te expleen hew eee ceme ep weth thes edee?"

## Rename a File (1 Credits)
Write a program that takes 2 file names as input (one after the other). It should take all the text from the first file and move it to a new file with the second file's name. Basically, you are making a copy of a file, but with a different name. You do not need to delete the original.

---

## Upgraded Sine Look Up Table (2 Credits)*
Convert the Sine Lookup Table from Example 12.1 in your book from 90 degrees to 180 degrees. This can be done by strategically *reducing* the amount of code from the code given. You can find working copies/gode-given of Example 12.1 and an updated sine table [here](/ECE1181/pages/Project/SineLookup.md).

## Palindrome Identifier (2 Credits)
Write a program that takes an input from the terminal and outputs whether the entered word is a palindrome (spelled the same way forward and backwards). You can assume that the input is always alphabetic and lowercase. Examples:

Input: "racecar"<br>
Output: "Palindrome" or "True" or "1" (any of these work)

Input: "cooper"<br>
Output: "Not a Palindrome" or "False" or "0" (any of these work)

Input: "palindromeemordnilap"<br>
Output: "Palindrome" or "True" or "1" (any of these work)


## Factorial Calculator (2 Credits)*
Write a program that takes a 1 digit number as input from the terminal and calculates the factorial (!). Remember that a factorial, n!, is calculated as (n * n-1 * n-2 ... * 2 * 1). This should be done through a loop and not brute forced. Note that there is a multiplication command in ARM (it is MUL, and you use it just like an ADD or SUB). Though the input needs to be from the terminal, you can view the output in the debugger. Examples:

Input: "5"<br>
Output: (gdb) value in R6 is 0x78, or 120 in decimal

Input: "9"<br>
Output: (gdb) value in R6 is 0x58980, or 362880 in decimal


## Caesar Cipher (2 Credits)
Write a program that takes a string and a number as inputs (one after the other) and shifts all letters by the given amount. This creates a classic Caesar Cipher. You can assume that the input is always lowercase and alphabetic and that the number is always a single-digit positive integer. Examples:

Input: "cooper
        2      "<br>
Output: "eqqrgt"

Input: "a secret message
        9                "<br>
Output: "j bnlanc vnbbjpn"

---
## Binary Search (3 Credits)*
You are given a pre-sorted list of elements. Write a program that uses binary search to find a given element. You do not need to take input from the terminal (all searching can be hard coded and shown in the debugger). You can find the sorted list/code given [here](/ECE1181/pages/Project/BinarySearch.md)


## Blinking Lights v2.0 (3 Credits)
Change the code from Lab 9 to support up to 5 lights. The code must be algorithmic (you cannot hard code each number). In theory, your program should be able to support up to 32 lights with very few changes. You only need to use up to 5 lights as a test. More supplies are avaliable upon request.

## Division/Modulus Operator (3 Credits)
Implement a macro that divides two numbers. It should return the whole-number quotient in R6 and the remainder (% or Modulus) in R7. You cannot use the division commands or functions already present in ARM. You do not need to take input or output from the terminal. The code should work by hard-coding 2 numbers into R0 and R1 which are your dividend and divisor, respectively. You can view the output in the debugger.

## Bubble Sort (3 Credits)*
You are given a randomized series of numbers. Write a program that sorts the numbers using the bubble sort algoritm. You can check that you program works using the debugger to view memory, where the sorted elements should be stored. Here is a C version of the algorithm to use as pseudocode:
```c
last = num;
while (last > 0) {
    pairs = last – 1;
    for (j = 0; j <= pairs; j++) {
        if (entry[j] > entry [j+1]) {
            temp = entry[j];
            entry[j] = entry[j+1];
            entry[j+1] = temp;
            last = j;
        }
    }
}
```

---

## 64-bit Multiplication (4 Credits)
Create a macro that expands ARM's 32-bit multiplication to allow an answer of up to 64 bits. It should return the product split between 2 registers (as in, R6 has bits 63-32 and R7 has bits 31-0). You do not need to take input or output from the terminal. You can view the output in the debugger.

## Text-based Video Game (4 Credits)
Create a text-based video game in ARM. The game should have the following minimum criterion:
- A nameable character whose name appears in at least 2 different spots within the game
- At least 6 Y/N or choice-based decisions/actions. Actions must have a meaningful effect on gameplay
- A health system (does not have to be fighting health, could be a strike system for making mistakes, etc.)
- The ability to quit the game from within the game (as in, end the program without needing to Ctrl+C).

---

## Decimal to Ascii Coverter (5 Credits)
This is a big one. For all the other projects that say "you don't need to print this to the terminal, just show it in the debugger", they say that because ascii and decimal don't blend well and you can't stdout/print a decimal number without converting to ascii. Your goal is to write a program/macro that takes numeric ASCII input from the terminal and converts it into an integer/number to be stored in memory. It then must be able to turn the number into an ASCII representation of the decimal interpretation of the number and print it out. You cannot take each digit as a separate input ("1 2 3 4"). It has to be continuous ("1234").

Thus, you should have this process:
- Input: "1234"
- Memory: 1234 or 0x4d2
- Output: "1234"

To prove your program works, input a 5 digit number, LSL it by 2 bits, and then print out the resulting number to the terminal. Examples:

Input: "39082"<br>
In Memory: 0x98aa

Output: "156328"

Input: "1213141"<br>
In Memory: 0x1282d5

Output: "4852564"

## Happy Birthday (5 Credits)
Play the song Happy Birthday on the breadboard using code from the Red Pitaya. Supplies avaliable upon request.

---

## Push Button Lights (8 Credits)
Get the push button counter from Lab 9 to work.

---

## Create your own! (1 - 8 Credits)
Propose your idea and have it credited by TA Cooper!

